we're going Formula One boring give me
NASCAR well like it or not Formula One
is big and getting bigger but speaking
of NASCAR big three coined a phrase win
on Sunday and sell on Monday well can
the same be said about the Formula One
gang where a steering wheel can cost up
to $100,000 I mean does it really make
good business sense we'll try and find
an answer to that question later on but
first we're going to revisit with a
story that got an incredible amount of
response from viewers and it's a story
about a car that many believed never got
the respect it deserved stylish and
affordable is how Pontiac described this
Viera when it arrived in 1984 for the
base price of about eight thousand
American dollars the arrow was a big
sale success with over one hundred and
thirty six thousand units sold in the
United States are you ready like this
Fiero the cutest I went on my own
without my parents and I paid for it
four thousand dollars okay okay my
father did kick in six thousand but I am
NOT a princess if I were a princess I
wouldn't have paid for anything does
anyone have any gum but the car was far
from perfect mechanical problems plagued
the vehicle sales figures were cut in
half the following year and by the end
of 1988 the Fiero was out of production
when they first brought it out it was a
bit of a Mickey Mouse thing because they
had like the front end of a citation
bolted into the back end of the Fiero
and the front end was basically Chevette
suspension however once they stuck the
v6 in it stopped at Catching Fire
it was actually a real good little car
looking back is it a bad dream
was it a mistake yeah it was never a
mistake it was it was a great car the
the only thing was is that plenty I had
to sell the vehicle initially as as a
commuter car to be a
get it through because the other
two-seater belong to Corvette they
couldn't sell it as a sports car to the
corporation so they sold it as a
commuter car and eventually it evolved
into the the two m6 nice little 2.8
liter v6 with a screamer new body style
new front end and then it it got its new
suspension in 1988 which was
unfortunately the last year for the
production of the vehicle do you think
funny I gave up on it too quickly
yeah the instant that they got it right
was the instant they trashed it and if
they'd have given it six months or maybe
even one more model year I think they
would have seen sales pick up and
appreciably so once embarrassed to admit
they owned a Fiero
many of the close to 300 thousand
registered owners are now coming out of
the closet with car clubs springing up
all over North America the Fiero has
also meant a dream come true for the
owners of the Fiero shop who serviced
custom and drive Fieros love affair with
the ferrell started in 92 and I
purchased my first fear and kind of had
it serviced in a couple of places and I
realized that nobody really likes to
work on them or some people don't know
how to work on them so I started to do a
little bit here a little bit there and
that's how we started three years ago
and it helps that all of us drive one of
these at least one of these and they
care confidence in our side I suppose
that's what brings them here and there's
a lot of people out there who love the
cars and whatever
some people say about it it's a great
car and as long as you don't mind
driving a two-seater it's something to
well about eight months ago we started
to put a 3.8 supercharged engine in it
out of a 94 Bonneville and had it bored
out and has been ported and polished and
blueprinted and balanced and put a
5-speed manual
once he transmission on the thing and
motor now is around 300 but we're in the
middle of putting a NOS kit in a nitrous
oxide and that should take it up to
close to 400 horsepower your thoughts on
this car I mean we're here with a
gentleman who makes a living at
customizing them but what went wrong
with it Fiero uh I think the problem was
they never put enough horsepower in them
they were good at handling and they had
the looks but they just didn't have the
performance even with the 2.8 it was
only putting out 140 horsepower it just
wasn't enough to keep the guys who liked
that kind of a car happy in 1984 when
the first production year came out their
main problems was engine compartment
fire where it occurred is in the rear
firewall or the vehicle main wiring
harness junction wasn't that area so it
was the exhaust manifold what occurred
most times was oiled leaked out of the
valve cover sit on to the manifold
splash all over the wiring harness and
it was the wiring hers would start to
burn what they did to cure that problem
is they covered the entire manifold but
a heat shield and that was one of the
recalls they had a navy between 84 and
85 so everybody agrees by 1988 the Fiero
was a terrific car the question though
still remains why did General Motors
pull the plug
they were so good they pulls the
competition to Corvette and at the price
they were selling them each the top
price was about $25,000 it was almost
half the price of a Corvette and that's
my opinion why they stopped making them
rather than what they claimed that the
sales dropped so low that they couldn't
sell enough cars to well warn their
production the Corvette guys got a
little bit antsy because the car was a
foot longer than the
the 88-89 and it was a very aggressive
looking vehicle so that plus the fact
that sales are two-seaters were down
except for to the mr2 from Toyota they
elected to discontinue the program at
that time and not pursue it any further
there's a lot of bad bad blood I guess
when we started the shop people said you
were crazy we will never make a living
at it you know they did not enough he
was out there and I guess we cooked them
off I'm no stranger to adrenaline I
found he'll ski I raced cars I was even
a passenger on a hang glider once but
the one thing that